# Smart-waste-Segregation-and-monitoring-System
ABSTRACT
In past few decennium there is an instant growth in the rate of urbanization and thus there is a need of sustainable urban development plans. Due to the development process the amount of waste generated every day is extreme so, the workload posed on the municipal corporation is extremely high. An efficient method to segregate the waste easily that has been designed in our project, “Automated Dry and Wet Waste Segregator and Monitoring System”. As the use of technology is increasing day by day, by taking the advantage of this new age technology we are focusing on managing waste effectively. This project will be helpful in our society at primary level for segregating waste initially it will make the process easy and less time consuming.
This Waste management is one of the serious challenges of the cities, the system now used in cities, we continue to use an old and outmoded paradigm that no longer serves the entail of municipalities, Still find over spilled waste containers giving off irritating smells causing serious health issues and atmosphere impairment. The Smart Waste Management System will simplify, with the Web applications and mobile phone, the solid and hydric waste inspecting process, and the management system of this presentation's total collection process. The proposed system is a GPS based. The suggested device and implementation will track waste storage and monitor the vehicle's waste driver. This method helps to make the customer aware of accountability behind the job such as the system for solid waste inspection and management, integrating communications technology for truck control systems such as GPS.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENT
The satisfaction that accompanies that the successful completion of any task would be incomplete without the mention of people whose ceaseless cooperation made it possible, whose constant guidance and encouragement crown all efforts with success.
We are grateful to our project guide Dr. Ramnik Singh Randhawa  and our HOD Dr. Neeru Malhotra for the guidance, inspiration and constructive suggestion that helped us in the preparation of this project.
Finally, as one of the team members, I would like to appreciate all my group members for their support and coordination. I hope we will achieve more in our future endeavours. 
INTRODUCTION
“Smart bin implementation for smart cities” - In this project mainly Solid waste management is a huge challenge in urban areas for most of the countries throughout the
world. It has always been challenging to manage waste properly and this problem start at primary level. If we will efficiently manage waste at initial level it will not be much difficult to handle waste. An efficient waste management is a pre requisition for maintain a safe and green environment as the amount of waste generating daily is increasing in all kinds of waste disposal. The main concept is that it monitors only one particular area. There is one place in your locality where all the waste is dumped of that locality. It will monitor only that one dustbin and will check the garbage level of it as and will inform the municipal authorities. Every bin is equipped with ultrasonic sensors which check the level of dustbin being filled up. The container in which the waste will be collected is split into three levels of garbage being collected in it. With its continuous use the levels get fill up gradually with time. Every time the garbage crosses a level the sensors receives the information of the filled level. This data is further sent to the garbage analyzer as rapid messaging using GSM module. Every message which is obtain at the garbage analyzer endpoint is being saved as data which is further used for the process of analysis and predictive modelling. The information is obtained at real time is used by the application interface for better observation of the filled level. The data obtained is saved in the database keeping the entire attribute related to time and date. The application interface shows the real time level to the garbage analyzer and using that it run its team of garbage collector to collect the garbage to avoid overflow. The real time check of  the filled level of all the container is developed in Microsoft Excel. Every level the dustbin gets filled up is received at the interface endpoint using messaging service. This message received is taken in the form of text files which is connected to the excel sheet showing the filled level of every container. SMS received from the GSM modules of the dustbin is taken in the form of text files. The text file in connected to the excel sheets. The updated values of the dustbin level are taken to form the real time report. The chart is the indicator of all three levels. The color coding of the levels is done as: Yellow for level 1,Green for level 2 and Red for level 3. It only focuses on the level of the garbage in the bin by three different level. To overcome this project, we have added a segregation method with monitoring which will be working effectively at primary level. In our project “Automated Dry and Wet Waste Segregator and Monitoring System”. Our main aim is to segregate waste at the primary level in two separate type in two different dustbins rather than segregating it manually. By doing this process in automated manner will be extremely helpful and effective will consume less time and manpower it. This process will help to decrease the workload on the municipal corporation authorities by segregating the waste and even monitoring it to avoid overflow of garbage and making it hygienic. This process followed on primary level will surely help provide good outcomes in near future.
